Copyright Â©1998-2010 The Open University.
All Rights Reserved.

The Open University of Walton Hall, Milton Keynes, United Kingdom, MK7
6AA (the Licensor) is the creator and copyright holder in the
Software.  The Licensor reserves all rights except those expressly
granted to the Licensee herein.

Definitions:

A. "Software" refers to the Software in whole or in part for The Open
   University technology known as "Operational Conceptual Modelling
   Language (OCML)" (in either source-code, or binary form)

B. "Work based on the Software" includes creating a work based on the
   Software, or part of the Software or on any derivative work of the
   Software or part of the Software

C. "Modifications to the Software" means any modifications to the
   software.

D. Each licensee is addressed as "You" "Your" or "Licensee".

E. Licence refers to this licence including all the licence terms
   herein without modification

Licence Terms:

1. A copy or copies of the Software may be used and/or modified by You
   included in Your products and/or distributed to others for
   non-commercial or commercial purposes subject to the following
   conditions:

1.1. This Licence and copyright notice must accompany all uses and
     distribution of the Software.

1.2. Copies in source code must include the copyright notice and this
     licence.

1.3. Copies in binary form must include the copyright notice and this
     license in the documentation and/or other materials provided with
     the copy.

1.4. All advertising materials, journal articles and documentation
     mentioning features derived from or use of the Software must
     display the following acknowledgement: "This product includes
     Software developed and/or derived by The Open University and its
     contributors."  In the event that the product being advertised
     includes an intact distribution (with copyright and license
     included) then clause 1.4 is waived subject to the
     acknowledgement copy on the original being maintained.

2. You are encouraged to package modifications to the Software
   separately as patches to the Software.

3. Any modifications to the Software are subject to the following:

3.1. The Software must carry prominent notices stating the changes to
     the Software

3.2. The Software must display the following acknowledgement: "This
     product includes Software developed and/or derived by The Open
     University and its contributors."

4. Neither the name of The Open University nor the names of its
   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
   from this Software.

5. Neither The Open University, nor any of its employees, makes any
   warranty express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or
   responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of the
   Software or any information, apparatus, product, or process
   disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately
   owned rights.

Termination:

The Licence and the rights granted hereunder may be changed, or
terminated at any time by The Open University. Your licence may be
terminated at any time upon breach of the terms of the licence which
The Open University deems as serious. However if your licence is
terminated as a result of a breach of terms such termination will not
apply to any individuals or entities that have received the Software
from you under this Licence provided such individuals or entities
remain in full compliance of the terms.  This License will continue in
full force and effect unless changed or terminated as stated above.

Disclaimer:

This software is provided by The Open University and contributors "as
is" and any express or implied warranties, including, but not limited
to, the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a
particular purpose are disclaimed. In no event shall The Open
University or contributors be liable for any direct, indirect,
incidental, special, exemplary, or consequential damages (including,
but not limited to, procurement of substitute goods or services; loss
of use, data, or profits; or business interruption) however caused and
on any theory of liability, whether in contract, strict liability, or
tort (including negligence or otherwise) arising in any way out of the
use of this software, even if advised of the possibility of such
damage. The Open University makes no representation that the software,
modifications, enhancements or derivative works thereof, will not
infringe any patent, copyright, trade secret or other proprietary
right.
